- Admin tasks or management tasks are a necessary evil
in software development.
All too often, we have to build a task to warm a cache
or clean up data that is expired.
In legacy applications, this is often accomplished
by building the task into the application
and either spawning it at regular intervals
or as asynchronous actions based on some event that occurs
in the main application.
These tasks usually complete their function
and then shut themselves down when they are done.
In a 12-factor world,
these tasks are treated as first-class processes.
They are themselves applications
that are spawned when needed,
usually by some overall management application.
Other shell type technologies can be leveraged
but essentially result in the same behavior.
Something, maybe a deploy, will trigger the process to run.
These processes run in their own execution environment,
to completion, and then shutdown.
It really is that simple.
When dealing with legacy applications,
the process for this is relatively straightforward.
You need to refactor your application.
Instead of containing these admin tasks themselves,
migrate them into another code base.
This code base will then be treated
as its own 12-factor application,
including all of its own deployments.
If the task needs to be part of a release,
such as a process that sets feature flags,
you need to do some triggering on the deploy
of the main application.
But that is usually not the norm.
Often these tasks are batch processes
that run at regular intervals,
or asynchronous message listeners
that react to a message on a queue or a topic.
Though we can't remove the necessary evil of the admin task,
by moving to cloud native,
we can treat it like any other application.